(attend-online)=
# Attending an online workshop

We are glad you would like to attend an online workshop.  This page
will help you mentally and physically prepare.

Our workshops are interactive and hands-on, and you will get the most
out of them if you can take part in all exercises, unlike a normal
academic lecture where you mainly listen.  Thus, please read this and
come prepared!



## General prerequisites

Check your workshop page for the prerequisites and required software -
this is not duplicated here!



## CodeRefinery-specific

- For most workshops, it is important to be a little bit familiar with
  the command line prompt - not a lot, if you can navigate to
  directories and edit files, you'll be able to make do.  [This Linux
  shell crash course](https://scicomp.aalto.fi/scicomp/shell.html)
  ([video](https://youtu.be/56p6xX0aToI)) is enough.
- Basics in one or more programming languages.
- You need to install some software. Please follow links on the
  workshop page.
- It is useful if you have a basic idea of how Git works. We will start from
  the basics anyway, but please go through
  [this Git-refresher material](https://coderefinery.github.io/git-refresher/)
  for a basic overview and important configuration steps.
- Make sure that git is configured, and verify the configuration:
  [text instructions](https://coderefinery.github.io/installation/git/#configuring-git),
  [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WdDTp8NeHBs&t=258s).



## Take the workshop seriously

It's easy to think "it's just online, it's easy to passively watch".
However, for an interactive workshop you do need to take part to get
the most of out it, and our workshops are targeted to that.  If you
read this page and the workshop prerequisites, you should be OK.

*Don't do multiple meetings*, *reserve the entire timeslots on your
calendar*, *attend every session*, *do the preparation*.



## Social

Attend with someone!  Register together and try to be in their same
group.  This will create a network of learning and practice that will
last much longer.

If you can attend a group, that is even better.  You can bring your
own helper to guide you (if the workshop works this way).  Research
shows that groups that have multiple adopters have much more uptake of
new skills.



## Workspace

Get a good, quiet workspace.  Make sure it is comfortable enough to
stay at for a while.

An extra monitor is useful but not required, since there is a lot of
stuff to follow: the stream itself, the lesson webpage, and the window
where you are doing the assignment.  You could also use a second
device to watch the stream (but if you do, see the
[Zoom](zoom-mechanics.md) page for info about screen sharing).

You'll be expected to talk at some times and take part, not simply be
quiet and listen all the time.  Try to be in a place where you can
speak without disturbing others.  By the same token, you'll be
listening for a long time, and your ears may get tired of headphones.
If you have good enough external speakers, be somewhere that you can
use them (perhaps only sometimes - when it doesn't interfere with your
microphone.)

If you work in a large office, consider attending from home or in a
meeting room so that you can speak and listen more freely.  If you
need and extra monitor or more comfortable seating space and don't
have that at home, consider working at your office.  Yes, these are
conflicting ideas, you need to find what works best for you.



## Time management

Despite what most people think, attending things online can be harder
than in-person.

Don't schedule overlapping meetings, reserve the entire timeslots,
minimze distractions.  It's easy to think you can do multiple things
at once when doing it online, but really it's a trap.

There will be breaks, but even long ones go by very fast, and this
gives you limited time to make coffee, eat, etc.  We try to limit
ourselves to half-days because of this, but consider preparing food,
coffee, etc. in advance.

Make sure you take the breaks, walk around some, etc.

Join the workshop stream 10 minutes early to get ready.



## Software installation

**Do the installation and configuration in advance, and double check
it.**  In real workshops, problems here slow us down a lot, and if
you don't prepare, you will immediately fall behind.  If there is a
pre-workshop session for installation, go there if needed.

If all else fails, join the workshop stream well in advance and ask
for help then.  Usually, there will be enough time to get ready for
the day.



## Live streaming

If you join by live streaming, things are a little bit more
complicated since you don't go to breakout rooms.  But we think it is
still pretty good:

* **Take the workshop seriously anyway.**  We take the streaming
  experience seriously so that you can.  Reserve time, have a good
  workspace, etc.  See "take the workshop seriously" above.

* **You can ask questions via the HackMD**, which is the same way we
  ask people to ask during the workshop.  If you register for Twitch,
  you can use the **Twitch chat** for small comments, too.

* **Form a team anyway in your own meeting.** You learn more from your
  colleagues than you do from us, so take advantage.  Get one "helper"
  for your team, start your own video call, watch the stream together,
  and during the exercise times, work together.  We will be clear
  about our timing, so that you can coordinate your team.  (Of course,
  you can always follow individually)

* **Announcements and updates**: Follow
  [@coderefine](https://twitter.com/coderefine) on Twitter for news.

* Come to an in-person workshop sometime: The stream is good, but
  can't replace the experience and individual help you get in person.
  Sign up on the [notify me
  list](https://coderefinery.org/workshops/upcoming/#notify-me) to
  hear about what comes next.





## Final notes

Join the stream 10 minutes in advance.  There is some advance
icebreakers and discussion you can take part in, and you get to breath
before we start.

There is usually discussion after the workshop.  If you want, stick
around and give us immediate feedback and ask more questions.

Come to an in-person workshop sometime.  An online workshop probably
can't replace the experience and individual help you get in person.
Sign up on the [notify me
list](https://coderefinery.org/workshops/upcoming/#notify-me) to hear
about what comes next.
